---

data_non_statistical: false

graph_title: global_indicators.15-1-1-title
graph_type: bar

indicator_number: 15.1.1
indicator_name: global_indicators.15-1-1-title
indicator_sort_order: 15-01-01

published: true
reporting_status: complete

national_geographical_coverage: Treptow-Köpenick
computation_units: yes, no

source_active_1: true
source_organisation_1: Bezirksamt Treptow-Köpenick
source_url_1:
source_url_text_1: 

sdg_goal: '15'
target_name: global_targets.15-1-title
target_id: '15-1'

indicator_definition: Proportion of implemented climate adaptation measures as a sum index of 10 dichotomous variables, based on a standardized questionnaire.

data_start_values:
  - field: data.antworten
    value: data.ja
  - field: data.antworten
    value: data.nein

---

The indicator shows the proportion of implemented climate adaptation measures as a sum index of 10 dichotomous variables, based on a standardized questionnaire (Peters et al., 2020). <br>

In 2021, the questions were answered as follows: <br>

    Have a climate analysis and climate hazard map been prepared for your community? Answer: no <br>

    Is there a political decision on climate adaptation? Answer: No <br>

    Is there a concept that addresses the impacts of climate change in the municipality, considers the specific municipal affectedness and vulnerability, and from this develops a local strategy with appropriate adaptation measures (climate adaptation concept)? Answer: No <br>

    Has this climate adaptation concept been approved? Answer: No <br>

    Is adaptation to the consequences of climate change (protection against flooding, heat, drought, storm damage, etc.) taken into account in urban planning and development? Answer: Yes <br>

    Have / are measures for adaptation to the consequences of climate change already implemented in public projects / buildings / areas (e.g. green roofs and facades, unsealing and greening measures on squares, retention areas and much more)? Answer: Yes <br>

    Is there an interdisciplinary/interdepartmental "climate adaptation" working group in your municipality? Answer: No <br>

    Is a municipal heat action plan or similar instrument for heat prevention in place? Answer: No <br>

    Are there offers to sensibilize and inform the citizens about climate change and adaptation? Answer: Yes <br>

    Are there municipal support programs for private climate adaptation measures and precautions for actors in the urban community? Answer: Yes
