---

data_non_statistical: false

graph_title: Noise pollution in Treptow Köpenick
graph_type: bar

indicator_number: 3.2.1.
indicator_name: global_indicators.3-2-1-title
indicator_sort_order: 03-02-01

published: true
reporting_status: complete

national_geographical_coverage: Treptow-Köpenick
computation_units: Number of planning areas

source_active_1: true
source_organisation_1: Senatsverwaltung für Umwelt, Verkehr und Klimaschutz
source_url_1: https://www.berlin.de/sen/uvk/umwelt/nachhaltigkeit/umweltgerechtigkeit/
source_url_text_1: https://www.berlin.de/sen/uvk/umwelt/nachhaltigkeit/umweltgerechtigkeit/

data_start_values:
  - field: data.noise
    value: data.no
  - field: data.noise
    value: data.low
  - field: data.noise
    value: data.medium
  - field: data.noise
    value: data.high

---

The indicator shows the relative noise exposure in Treptow-Köpenick, i.e. the number of planning areas (PLRs) in Treptow-Köpenick with low, medium and high exposure compared to the planning areas of other districts in Berlin. <br>

In order to get an overall view of the environmental situation in Berlin, the state of Berlin has implemented an [environmental justice monitoring](https://www.berlin.de/sen/uvk/umwelt/nachhaltigkeit/umweltgerechtigkeit/). 
The environmental justice monitoring evaluates existing data of different core indicators (e.g. noise pollution and air pollution) and aggregates these data on a neighborhood level, respectively on a total of 447 so called planning areas (PLRs), whereas Treptow-Köpenick is divided into 34 planning areas. <br>

The data basis for the noise pollution of the planning areas (PLRs) was the Strategic Noise Map 2012 with the LDEN levels (noise index day-evening-night) for road, rail and air traffic noise. Since the areas have different densities, the traffic noise exposure per capita was determined and monetized at external noise costs per person. The noise costs financially represent the loss of benefit that residents experience. The cost rates for this were provided by the Methodology Convention 2.0 of the Federal Environment Agency (Umweltbundesamt). <br> 

According to these noise costs per capita, the 447 PLRs were sorted in ascending order and divided into three categories: The bottom 20 percent are considered low impact (86 PLRs), the top 20 percent high impact (also 86 PLRs), and all others medium impact (261 PLRs). No data exist for 14 PLRs. <br> 

The districts are affected to varying degrees by noise. In Treptow-Köpenick 4 PLRs are highly, 22 PLRs medium and 6 PLRs low burdened by noise. For 2 PLRs no data exist. <br> 

Overall, the external costs due to traffic noise differ greatly between the planning areas. In low polluted planning areas they amount up to 21 Euro per capita and year, in the high polluted category they range from 40 to 103 Euro. Berlin-wide, they are just under 45 euros.
