---
indicator_number: 3.1.1.b
indicator_name: Relative air pollution in Treptow-Köpenick (low, medium and high)
computation_units: Number of planning areas
source_active_1: true
source_organisation_1: Senatsverwaltung für Umwelt, Verkehr und Klimaschutz
source_url_1: 'https://www.berlin.de/sen/uvk/umwelt/nachhaltigkeit/umweltgerechtigkeit/'
reporting_status: complete
published: true
data_non_statistical: false
data_show_map: false
graph_type: line
source_url_text_1: Link to source

graph_title: Air pollution in Treptow Köpenick
national_indicator_description: 
national_geographical_coverage: Treptow-Köpenick
source_earliest_available_1: 2017
indicator_definition:
---
In order to get an overall view of the environmental situation in Berlin, the state of Berlin has implemented an environmental justice monitoring. 
The environmental justice monitoring evaluates existing data of different core indicators (e.g. noise pollution and air pollution) and aggregates these data on a neighborhood level, respectively on a total of 447 so called planning areas (PLR), whereas Treptow-Köpenick is divided into 34 planning areas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The data basis for the air pollution of the planning areas (PLR) are the annual mean values 2009 of the concentration of particulate matter (PM2.5) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). Both values were collected on the basis of 500 by 500 meter grid cells on the one hand and as linear information on main road sections on the other hand. From these data, area-weighted annual mean values for PM2.5 and NO2 were determined for each PLR. Subsequently, the determined values were divided into three categories (low, medium, high). The bottom 20 percent are considered low impact, the top 20 percent high impact, and all others medium impact.
The result: Air pollution in Berlin increases from the periphery to the center. For PM2.5, the values in the least polluted PLR were 14.8 μg/m³ and in the most polluted PLR 18.4 μg/m³, which means that the benchmark value of 10 μg/m³ recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) was exceeded in all PLRs in Berlin. For NO2, the values ranged from 11.3 to 27.3 μg/m³, which means that the WHO guideline value of 40 μg/m³ was not exceeded.
